Hello friends, welcome to Tippon Sites.
In today's video, we will talk about
rejected claims. If your
cashless claim or rest claim has been rejected, then
how can we get that rejected claim passed again by writing a letter.
How to write that letter or
whom to get it written from? I am going to tell you the complete process
in today's video. So, please watch the
video till the end. If you are
new to the channel, then subscribe to the channel and
press the button so that
you remain notified of new videos. So let's
start the video
[Music].
My
claim is genuine and the insurance company has
rejected it. So,
how can you get that rejected claim passed again by
writing a letter?
Before telling you the process of writing that letter, I
want to tell you some basic things.
Never misuse your health insurance card or
your health insurance policy. Use it only
if you need it for
your treatment. It will be valid only
in admitted cases. Your card will
not be valid in OPD. So, this  Things you need to keep in mind:
Many times,
you go to the hospital and say that you want to get
your treatment done using this card, and the
hospital admits you, but
they are only concerned with the payment. If your
treatment is
not fit for admission according to the insurance company, and yet the
hospital admits you, and
when you send a request there, your
claim will be rejected,
saying that your treatment could have been managed in the OPD,
meaning you
could have taken the medicines from the OPD and gone home and
treated them, so you did
not need to be admitted. They
reject your claim by giving this reason. You should
use your health card and health policy only
when the doctor advises you
that you need to be admitted. Because
when the documents go to the insurance company, there is
a team of doctors there too
and they also check what the patient is
suffering from. Because the
hospital writes everything in those documents and sends it saying that on the
basis of this problem, we have admitted this patient.
People also review and
if they feel that the patient is
not suffering much or the patient could have been managed in the OPD, then
they reject the claim.
But if the hospital doctor is
telling you that you do not need
admission, then on that basis you can get admitted, you can
use your health card, you can
use your health policy
because in that condition the doctor is
confident that this
patient actually needs it and he prepares such papers due to which
your claim gets passed
easily. The second reason for the claim getting rejected is
that we send incomplete documents to the insurance company, either
under cashless treatment, whenever documents are
sent by the hospital, those
documents are sent incomplete, like you
forgot to attach any report or you have
not filled the details correctly in the pre-authorization form or it means that the
hospital is
not writing detailed information about the treatment that is being given to you, that is, it has
not explained completely
what type of diagnosis is being made, what are the
problems, etc.  When incomplete information
reaches the insurance company, they
raise a query or reject the claim citing
any reason. Similarly, there is a
resource form or claim form A
and B and discharge summary, it matters a
lot. Whatever
you write in it, those things are checked there
and on that basis only, whether your claim is
passed or not depends. Many times,
even after having incomplete documents, the
insurance company or TPA
sends a query letter, but the answer to the query letter is
given by the hospital
or by you people,
even after that the insurance company is not satisfied
with your answer and
you are not providing the things that they are asking for
or are providing wrong information, then the
insurance company ultimately
rejects your claim, but you feel
that your claim is genuine and you
can get this claim and you are actually
suffering, then what you have to do is first of all
meet your doctor.  You have to meet the doctor who
asked you to get admitted, you have to
meet the treating doctor and get a summary of your case written on the hospital letter bed
or on any A4 size paper, you have to
show him your rejection letter and tell him that sir, the
insurance company has rejected my claim
in cashless or reimbursement, whichever way it is
rejected, you have to
show the letter of the insurance company to your doctor, so
in that condition the doctor
writes a summary of the case on A4 size paper or on the hospital letter pad, the
treatment given to the patient,
in what condition did this patient come, what were his
problems, what treatment did we give, on the
basis of which report did we admit him, what was there
in that report due to which
we needed to admit him, so the
letter that he writes in the case summary is called a reconsideration letter,
reconsider means reconsider, that means
you should think about that claim again,
that is a letter to be written, there are
many TPAs ​​in the hospital who  People
also write the reconsideration letter themselves even
before the doctor writes it because they have some
knowledge and experience and they
write the letter and send it to the insurance company
and the claim is passed
but when the reimbursement claim comes, they are
not able to write the reconsideration in it. The
policy holders face a lot of trouble
because in cashless, the doctor as well as the
TPA team also sits, so
in cashless, they have to take care of everything
but what happens in the case of reimbursement is
that people do not know how to
write that letter. So for that, the simple
solution for you is that
you should go to the hospital and show your rejection letter or any doctor related query to the
doctor, show it to the TPA team
and send only those documents which the
insurance company is asking for. Do
not send incomplete documents, do
not send wrong information to them by filling in any form
or writing along with any query, do
not send anything that may make the
company doubt.  And if they reject your claim citing a reason, then
you have to keep these things in mind and
claims are passed through a reconsideration letter.
I have seen it with my own eyes
and I have also got claims passed by writing such letters.
So you should try. If the
doctor does not answer your query
or the doctor does not write a reconsideration letter,
then what can you do in that condition? The
hospital where you got your treatment done will have
a file maintained inside that hospital. They do
not give that file to any patient. But if you
ask them for a soft copy
of this claim or this treatment, then they will give you
a soft copy or photocopy.
You have to get the science stamp done on every page of that photocopy
and after scanning it,
you will send it to the insurance company. It will contain
everything written in it. It contains
every detail of the entire treatment,
which medicines were given when, what
treatment was given, what came in the lab test,
whatever reports you have got done
by the hospital, that is, everything is mentioned in it.
Even after looking at the file, the insurance company
passes your claim. So in today's video,
I told you
how to write a reconsideration letter, how
you can write a reconsideration letter to get your rejected claim passed again, to get
your claim
passed again, so you
must try it, your claim may also get passed. After
watching this video, you must have
understood about the reconsideration letter.
Still, if you have
any question regarding this video, then
write it to me in the comment section and I will
answer you. Apart from this, if you have any query regarding your
health insurance claim, then
you can share that query with me
or if you have
any question related to health insurance, then
you can ask me that too, I will
definitely answer it. So that's all for today's video. If you liked the
video, then
like the video, subscribe to the channel and
press the bell icon
so that you keep getting notifications of new videos. See you
in the next video, till then,
hello.